## 22.1-1
Given an adjacency-list representation of a directed graph, how long does it take to compute the out-degree of every vertex? How long does it take to compute the in-degrees?

`Out-degree`: O(|E|+|V|) or O(|V|)(if you have recorded the length of each list as a attribute of a vertex)

`In-degree`: O(|E|+|V|)

[check out here for details](http://sites.math.rutgers.edu/~ajl213/CLRS/Ch22.pdf)

## 22.1-2 
Give an adjacency-list representation for a complete binary tree on 7 vertices. Give an equivalent adjacency-matrix representation. Assume that vertices are numbered from 1 to 7 as in a binary heap.

Pass

## 22.1-3

The transpose of a directed graph G = (V, E) is the graph GT = (V, E^T), where E^T = {(v, u) in V × V : (u, v) in E}. Thus, G^T is G with all its edges reversed. Describe efficient algorithms for computing GT from G, for both the adjacency-list and adjacency-matrix representations of G. Analyze the running times of your algorithms.

where T means transpose.

`Ajacency matrix notation`: just transpose the matrix 

`Adjacency list notation`: 
```
for each vertex u in V (G) 
  do add u to V(G') 
for each vertex u in V (G) 
  do for each v in Adj (G) [u] 
    do add u to Adj (G') [v] 
 ```
 O(|V|+|E|)
 
 ## 22.1.-4 
 Given an adjacency-list representation of a multigraph G = (V, E), describe an O(V + E)-time algorithm to compute the adjacency-list representation of the "equivalent" undirected graph G′ = (V, E′), where E′ consists of the edges in E with all multiple edges between two vertices replaced by a single edge and with all self-loops removed.
 
 Create an array A of size  |V|.  For a list in the adjacency list corresponding to vertex  v , examine items on the list one by one. If any item is equal to  v , remove it. If vertex  u  appears on the list, examine  A[u] . If it's not equal to  v , set it equal to  v . If it's equal to  v , remove  u  from the list. Since we have constant time lookup in the array, the total runtime is  O(V+E).
 
 
 
 ## 22.1-5 
 The *square* of a directed graph  G=(V,E)  is the graph  G^2=(V,E^2)  such that  (u,v)∈E^2  if and only  G  contains a path with at most two edges between  u  and  v . Describe efficient algorithms for computing  G^2  from  G  for both the adjacency-list and adjacency-matrix representations of  G . Analyze the running times of your algorithms.
 
 `Ajacency matrix`:
 Just compute A^2, can be done with Strassen algorithm 
 
 `Adjacency list`:
 


## 22.1-6
Most graph algorithms that take an adjacency-matrix representation as input require time  Ω(V2) , but there are some exceptions. Show how to determine whether a directed graph  G  contains a *universal sink*  –  a vertex with in-degree  |V|−1  and out-degree 0  –  in time  O(V) , given an adjacency matrix for  G .

```
IS_SINK(A, k)
 1  let A be |V| × |V|
 2  for j = 1 to |V|      // Check for a 1 in row k
 3      if a[k][j] == 1
 4          return FALSE
 5  for i = 1 to |V|      // Check for an off-diagonal 0 in column k
 6      if a[i][k] == 0 and i != k
 7          return FALSE
 8  return TRUE
 ```

```
UNIVERSAL_SINK(A)
 1  let A be |V| × |V|
 2  i = j = 1
 3  while i <= |V| and j <= |V|
 4      if a[i][j] == 1
 5          i = i + 1
 6      else j = j + 1
 7  s = 0
 8  if i > |V|
 9      return "there is no universal sink"
10  else if IS_SINK(A, i) = FALSE
11      return "there is no universal sink"
12  else return i "is a universal sink"
```
